# 1. Requests

## 1.A Base URL

BaseURL: **https://api.myparcel.nl**

## 1.B User-Agent

To give us insight into where requests come from and API documentation usage, you should send a `User-Agent` header with all your requests. This header should include information about your integration, the CMS/platform and the backend you are using.

We recommend the following format and order:

```
MyParcel-<integration>/<version> <cms>/<version> <backend>/<version>
```

Example, given you're using a CMS called "My First CMS", its version is `3.0.0` and it runs on PHP `8.1.0`:

```
User-Agent: MyFirstCMS/3.0.0 PHP/8.1.0
```

An example if you're building a MyParcel plug-in for "My First CMS" and its version is `1.0.0`:

```
User-Agent: MyParcel-MyFirstCMS/1.0.0 MyFirstCMS/3.0.0 PHP/8.1.0
```

::: tip
If you are building an integration, please contact us to have it added to [the list of integrations](/integrations).
:::

Example if you are building a custom API implementation and are running Node 18.13.0:

```
User-Agent: CustomApiCall/2 Node/18.13.0
```

## 1.C HTTP methods

The API is REST(ful) and uses JSON as its primary data exchange format.
Communication with the API goes through HTTPS thereby insuring data
confidentiality and integrity. Here is a list of all supported HTTP methods

### 1.C.1 GET

GET method is used for retrieving data and is idempotent. Data can be returned
in JSON, PDF, CSV, XML or other formats.

### 1.C.2 POST

POST is used to create new objects or send data to MyParcel.

### 1.C.3 DELETE

DELETE is used to delete an existing object (piece of data). This method always
returns <Http code=204 /> unless otherwise specified.

### 1.C.4 PUT

A PUT request creates a resource or updates an existing resource. The client for
specifies the URI for the resource. The request body contains a complete
representation of the resource. If a resource with this URI already exists, it
is replaced. Otherwise, a new resource is created, if the server supports doing
so.

### 1.C.5 PATCH

A PATCH request performs a partial update to an existing resource.
The client specifies the URI for the resource. The request body specifies a set
of changes to apply to the resource. This can be more efficient than using

## 1.D Rate limiting(WIP)

Rate limits may apply to many of our endpoints. You cannot receive data after
you have exceeded the limit. The rate limiting will be reached when you make
more than xxx requests per minute. The limit automatically resets after x
minute(s).

Example: If you make 100 requests within 15 seconds to the same endpoint with an
applied rate limit of 100 request per 5 minutes, you will be able to continue 5
minutes later. Hence the applied timeframe of the rate limit (5 minutes) will
also be applied for the cooldown period.

| Method | Endpoint                 | Rate limit             |
| ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| POST   | `/webhook_subscriptions` | 30 calls in 5 minutes  |
| GET    | `/webhook_subscriptions` | 150 calls in 5 minutes |
| DELETE | `/webhook_subscriptions` | 30 calls in 5 minutes  |
| GET    | `/tracktraces/{ids?}`    | 100 calls in 5 minutes |
| GET    | `/pickup_locations`      | 30 calls in 5 minutes  |
| GET    | `/delivery_options`      | 30 calls in 5 minutes  |
