# 11. Webhook Object Definitions

## 11.A Subscription

### 11.A.1 Overview

This object contains an event and a callback URL that will receive notifications.

**id**  
Data type: [integer]  
Required: No.  
The id of the webhook subscription.

**hook**  
Data type: [string] (`shipment_label_created` or `shipment_status_change`)  
Required: Yes.  
The event from which you want to receive notifications.

**url**  
Data type: [string]  
Required: Yes.  
The callback URL on which to receive notifications. The URL protocol must be https.

**account_id**  
Data type: [integer]  
Required: No.  
The ID of the account to which this subscription belongs.

**shop_id**  
Data type: [integer]  
Required: No.  
The ID of the shop to which this subscription belongs.

### 11.A.2 Examples

POST Example
```json
{
  "hook": "shipment_status_change",
  "url": "https://seoshop.nl/myparcel/notifications"
}
```

GET Example
```json
{
  "id": 79798,
  "account_id": 126594,
  "shop_id": 39399,
  "hook": "shipment_status_change",
  "URL": "https://seoshop.nl/myparcel/notifications"
}
```

The above is an example of the Webhook Object. However, you receive the following content:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "webhook_subscriptions": [
      {
        "id": 79798,
        "account_id": 126594,
        "shop_id": 39399,
        "hook": "shipment_status_change",
        "url": "https://seoshop.nl/myparcel/notifications"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## 11.B ShipmentStatusChangeEvent

### 11.B.1 Overview

This object contains the shipment status change event. This object is sent to the callback URL specified in the Subscription object whenever a shipment status changes.

**shipment_id**  
Data type: [string]  
This is the shipment id.

**account_id**  
Data type: [integer]  
This is the account id to which the shipment belongs.

**shop_id**  
Data type: [integer]  
This is the shop to which the shipment belongs.

**status**  
Data type: [shipment_status]  
The shipment status.

**barcode**  
Data type: [string]  
This is the shipment barcode.

### 11.B.2 Reference

We send the following headers to your environment:

| ---                          | ---                                        |
| **User-Agent**               | `MyParcel/Webhook-Notifier`                |
| **Content-Type**             | `application/json; charset=utf-8`          |
| **X-MyParcel-Hook**          | `shipment_status_change`                   |
| **X-MyParcel-HookId**        | `d91e16cbfbcfec0b17cfafb3a9bf3c1b206a9dd0` |
| **X-MyParcel-Authorization** | `<Base64 of your API key>`                 |

### 11.B.3 Example

```json
{
  "shipment_id": "25482412",
  "account_id": 7003,
  "shop_id": 1897,
  "status": 2,
  "barcode": "3SMYPA749883621"
}
```

The above is an example of the ShipmentStatusChangeEvent Object. However, the following notification is sent to your callback URL:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hooks": [
      {
        "shipment_id": "25482412",
        "account_id": 7003,
        "shop_id": 1897,
        "status": 2,
        "barcode": "3SMYPA749883621"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## 11.C ShipmentLabelCreated

### 11.C.1 Overview

This object contains the shipment label created event. This object is sent to the callback URL specified in the Subscription object when a label is created asynchronously (for example when <ApiLink to="6_B_2">creating shipments</ApiLink> using accept header `application/vnd.shipment_label+json;charset=utf-8`).

**status**  
Data type: [webhook status]  

**shipment_ids**  
Data type: [array] of [integer]  

**printer_identifier**  
Data type: [printer_identifier]

**pdf**  
Data type: [string]  
This field contains a URL that leads to a PDF.

### 11.C.2 Reference

We send the following headers to your environment:

| ---                          | ---                                        |
| **User-Agent**               | `MyParcel/Webhook-Notifier`                |
| **Content-Type**             | `application/json; charset=utf-8`          |
| **X-MyParcel-Hook**          | `shipment_label_created`                   |
| **X-MyParcel-HookId**        | `d91e16cbfbcfec0b17cfafb3a9bf3c1b206a9dd0` |
| **X-MyParcel-Authorization** | `<Base64 of your API key>`                 |

### 11.C.3 Example

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "shipment_ids": [
    15001826
  ],
  "printer_identifier": "YOUR_PRINTER_ID",
  "pdf": "https://api.myparcel.nl/pdfs/f569bc5a247fcec09d6a8cba16ff7629ca8062f3"

}
```

```json
{
  "status": "failed",
  "shipment_ids": [
    15001820
  ],
  "printer_identifier": "",
  "pdf": "",
  "reason": "payment required"
}
```
The above is an example of the ShipmentLabelCreated Object. However, the following notification is sent to your callback URL:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hooks": [
      {
        "status": "success",
        "shipment_ids": [
          15001826
        ],
        "printer_identifier": "YOUR_PRINTER_ID",
        "pdf": "https://api.myparcel.nl/pdfs/f569bc5a247fcec09d6a8cba16ff7629ca8062f3"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## 11.D SubscriptionIds

This object contains an [array] of <ApiLink to="11_D">SubscriptionId</ApiLink> objects.  
  
**ids**  
Data type: [array] of <ApiLink to="11_D">SubscriptionId</ApiLink> objects.  
Required: n/a.  
[array] of <ApiLink to="11_D">SubscriptionId</ApiLink> objects.

## 11.E SubscriptionId

**id**  
Data type: [integer]  
Required: n/a.  
[Subscription](#_11-a) .id

[Webhook]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#webhook
[array]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#array
[boolean]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#boolean
[carrier]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#carrier
[coordinates]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#coordinates
[country_code]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#country-code
[currency]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#currency
[date]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#date
[delivery_type]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#delivery-type
[description]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#description
[eori_number]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#eori-number
[float]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#float
[integer]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#integer
[isic_code]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#isic-code
[label_position]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#label-position
[main]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#main
[month_digit]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#month-digit
[package_contents]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#package-contents
[package_type]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#package-type
[paper_size]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#paper-size
[platform]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#platform
[price]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#price
[shipment_status]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#shipment-status
[sort_order]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#sort-order
[string]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#string
[text]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#text
[time]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#time
[timestamp]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#timestamp
[vat_number]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#vat-number
[weekday_digit]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#weekday-digit
[weekday_string]: /api-reference/04.data-types.html#weekday-string
